It has been far too long,
child of man.
It was in the world with the
red sea where we last met.
Yet by your efforts,
you stand before me once again.
Your perseverance is
something to be commended.
[SATOKO]
What?
I must believe the
bewilderment on your face
is a ruse, Vier.
Or else, perhaps,
were you Mitsuyo?
I don't know either
of those names!
[???]
Is that right?
I suppose it might
be best to call you
"Anomalous Spinal Cord
Specimen LD 3105."
[chuckles]
[gasps]
Nothing you've said
to me makes sense at all!
Tell me who you are already!
[???]
Hmm? Well now.
[chuckles]
And more importantly,
where is this place?
We're certainly not inside
the storehouse, are we?
[??? laughs]
A pitiful sight.
Truly.
It's beyond pathetic.
How many hundreds
of millions of loops
did you traverse in
order to find yourself
in my presence again?
And yet, in the course of
making your way back to me,
it would seem you've
forgotten who I am entirely.
You and I have never met,
you've got the wrong person.
What a cruel path
we're forced to walk,
charted by the hands
of callous souls.
[chuckles]
I digress.
In your countenance I see
the pain of a wish unfulfilled.
A wish that burns
so strongly its flame
threatens to consume
your very being.
[??? laughs]
I hear your soul cry
out in anguish.
And what is that
supposed to mean?
As a child of man,
you will never attain
what you so desire,
but using my power,
anything you might want
could be within your reach.
Huh?
Yes! I offer the power to make
your every wish a reality!
And if you persist
in your search,
you may find yourself
in the idyllic world
for which your heart yearns.
Be warned.
Your trek will surely be long.
Your path, grueling.
You've said nothing but nonsense
the whole time I've been here.
I'm tired of listening.
Give me this power
already or let me go!
[??? chuckles]
Very well!
I bestow my power unto you!
You shall become one
who lives in loops,
spiraling endlessly
through time,
until at long last
your wish is fulfilled.
"Lives in loops"?
What are you talking about?
If ever you feel
your life cannot offer
the satisfaction you seek,
you may end it and start anew.
[SATOKO gasps]
"End it"?
So I have to die
to use this power?
[??? chuckles]
Fret not, child.
My power is not as flawed
as that granted to the cat.
However many
lives you may abandon,
the memories of each shall
always persist into the next.
That's insane.
None of this is real!
Of course, it would not do
for you to receive
such power at no cost.
Yet, if you simply proceed
in your intended course,
the price will be no burden.
In return for what I give you.
I only expect a bit
of brief amusement.
Which, over time,
I know you'll provide.
Your deeds will surely
be ample repayment.
This keeps making less sense
the more you talk about it!
You're crazy!
Enough. Let me out
of this place!
[??? laughs]
You've yet to begin,
and I'm already entertained.
This pleases me, child of man!
[SATOKO gasps]
Wait, is this...
What's happening?
Why am I here?
This house...
That old lady
told me it caved in
completely during the blizzard.
1983? Five years ago?
What's going on?
[gasps]
No way. This can't be.
That's absurd.
"Living in loops"?
There's no way.
I'm sure there's some
kind of explanation, here.
It's nothing but fantasy.
Time travel isn't real!
Get a hold of yourself.
Could I have simply been lost
in a dream this whole time?
I woke up in my house,
and the calendar shows 1983.
[SATOKO] It would have been a
torturously long dream if so,
but it's the only thing
that makes sense.
A nightmare.
It had to be.
I dreamt it all.
That Rika desperately
wanted to abandon Hinamizawa.
And worse.
That she'd toss me
aside like that!
It's wrong.
She would never do that to me!
It was nothing
but one long nightmare!
[RIKA]
Sorry. You missed your chance!
I was up before you,
so I decided I would go ahead
and pull the
page off the calendar!
I know you like to do it,
but this time you were beaten
to the punch, Satoko!
Ni‐paa!
You okay?
I hope I didn't actually
hurt your feelings.
I just wanted to play
a little prank on you.
You're not really
upset, are you?
Satoko, what's wrong?
Is there something
you wanna tell me?
You're acting
kinda strange today.
[SATOKO]
Everything is okay.
I just woke up from
the most awful dream.
The real you
would never do that!
Well, whatever it is you
went through in that dream,
it's over now.
My poor, poor, pitiful Satoko.
[SATOKO cries]
Rika!
[TAKANO]
Jiro, please. Please help me!
[sobs]
[TOMITAKE]
Sorry I'm late.
It's all over now.
[RIKA]
Satoko?
[SATOKO]
What's this out of nowhere?
I need to ask you a favor.
Would you mind taking
a shopping trip with me?
There's a certain
store in Okinomiya.
And it would really mean a lot
if I could have
you there with me.
[RIKA]
We're here.
[SATOKO]
We are, as expected.
[RIKA]
For a long time now,
there's a certain something I've
secretly been dreaming of doing.
And now I want us to make
that dream come
true together, Satoko.
Enrolling at St. Lucia Academy.
Is that your dream?
Huh? That's right!
How did you know?
I never brought it up,
but I've thought
about it for a while.
And I decided what
I want is something new.
I'd like a life totally
different from the one I know.
And obviously,
I want my best friend
to be there at my side.
Basically, I wanna
go live the high life
with you at a fancy
boarding school, Satoko!
Ni‐paa!
[SATOKO]
Really, Rika.
Worrying about
entrance exams already?
That seems premature.
I don't think it's premature.
It's been hardly any time at all
since we exposed the
Mountain Dogs' plot
and saved our beloved
village from destruction.
It was a long fight,
and it would be a waste not to
enjoy the peace we've won!
I agree, that would be a waste,
and I know I'd rather goof off
with you and the rest of the
club than study for the test.
[SATOKO] Then I say that's
exactly what you ought to do!
Admittedly, our
club activities of late
have been seriously lacking,
but I'm sure we can
reverse that trend.
With a bit of work, we'll
have the adrenaline pumping
just like before!
Yes, I think that
would be wonderful.
[chortles] But of course it
would be, Rika dear!
What more could anyone
hope for in life?
Did I say something wrong?
Listen, I've wanted
this for so long now.
It feels like I've been wishing
for it my whole life.
For longer than I can explain.
[RIKA] And I've found
the world I wanted.
A world where I can
choose to leave Hinamizawa.
One where I'm free.
Up until now,
I couldn't even dream
of being anywhere
but this village.
You're precious to me,
and so are all of
our friends in club.
But I've been waiting and hoping
I could see the rest
of the world someday,
and that dream is
also precious to me!
I want you to be there with me,
Satoko, but I can't make you.
[gasps]
You mean...
[RIKA]
It's okay.
It won't be the same
going it alone,
but I'll do it if I have to.
Good evening, miss.
That's not fair.
Now I'm the bad guy.
I knew that you
would come around!
Well, I would hate to waste
a trip to Okinomiya.
And to be absolutely clear,
buying this book
is not a commitment.
But I'm still
really glad you did!
[SATOKO] I don't think
I can break Rika's will.
But I have no doubt
that I can waste all
of her study time.
[KEIICHI]
Please stand! Face forward! Bow!
[STUDENTS]
Bye, Ms. Chie!
Chie... Huh?
[chortles]
Rika, please!
You know it's time for club!
Excuse me.
Would you please let me by?
I need Chie's help
with a problem.
Today is my game!
Get ready to lose at
Infinite Fractal Baseball!
So I hope you've been keeping
your defensive game sharp.
Letting one man on could
cost you infinite runs!
Satoko.
I'm not going to club anymore.
What? Come, Rika.
You wouldn't want
to miss out on playing
with our whole class, would you?
And in case you haven't noticed,
the weather is
absolutely gorgeous!
It would be silly
to squander it!
Stop, Satoko!
You can crack open that
study guide anytime you want,
but if you go home,
you won't get another chance
to be part of this game.
I understand what
you're saying, but still...
Hey, Rika.
Is everything okay?
Everybody's heading
outside for club.
Rika's attempting
to escape from battle.
I've been trying to talk
some sense into her,
but it isn't working!
Mii.
[KEIICHI]
Hmm... If Mion were here,
she'd slap you with a penalty
for even thinking about it.
But I'm not gonna make you stay.
If you really need
to leave, then you can.
Yeah, definitely,
though we'd miss you.
Okay. Fine.
I suppose I'll be joining you.
We didn't mean
to guilt you into it.
Are you sure it's fine?
There'll be plenty of time
to study when I get home.
And besides,
this way, I get to play
with all my friends!
Awoo! Rika's gonna be
playing with us again!
It feels like ages
since you joined us,
you don't know
how badly I've missed you!
You did?
Can you see what
I was saying now?
Everyone around here
loves you the way you are,
and we're all happy that
you're a part of our lives!
Thanks. That means a lot!
[SATOKO sighs]
That was a ballgame
for the history books!
Comeback after comeback.
I don't think linear baseball
could ever compete
with that thrill!
I can't remember ever
hearing about a baseball game
where the score
reached triple digits.
And to top it off, you got
to seal the deal for our team
with an amazing grand slam,
right at the very end!
It was satisfying,
but it took a lot out of me.
I think my legs might fall off.
Oh yeah,
I'm super worn out, too,
and just imagine if we
had gone into extra innings.
[SATOKO]
Well, it sounds like
we're both gonna need
to get to bed early.
[RIKA] Gonna walk in
the door and fall asleep.
Hope I reach my futon.
I think that's going
to work out just fine.
Rika?
[gasps]
‐‐[SATOKO] Rika?
‐‐[RIKA] Huh?
I thought you were still asleep.
[SATOKO]
Hey. Can we talk for a second?
There's no chance you're
going to let me talk you
out of enrolling at
St. Lucia Academy, huh?
I refuse to give up on it.
I know we can do it if we try!
[sighs]
To be completely honest.
I don't want to go to a school
that far from the village.
I know you dream of going
to St. Lucia, but I don't.
I understand that the entrance
exam is a lot of pressure.
But please...
The exam's not the issue.
Of course I absolutely
detest studying,
and we both know that.
But I realize
how much you want this,
and I would do anything
to give it to you.
I'd pour myself into it,
because I really, really
want you to be happy, Rika.
I'd give it everything I had,
and maybe that would be enough,
and we'd get to enroll at
the school you dreamed of.
But if I put all
I have into the exam,
I won't have anything
left for the school year,
then I'll keep
falling further behind
till I can never catch up.
It scares me.
I don't know how
I could live through that
when just imagining
it hurts so much.
[RIKA] Maybe it will be as
hard as you expect it to be.
But I'll be right there
by your side!
I hate studying at least
as much as you do.
But still, if you're ever
struggling with anything.
I'll do everything I can
to help you understand it all.
We don't have to stop being
study buddies once we get in!
That might be more
complicated than expected.
You'll grow up into a beautiful,
elegant, effortlessly
graceful young lady.
All of the girls at
St. Lucia will adore you
from the moment
you walk in the door.
I'm not like you.
I'll always be the loud girl
from the boonies.
The troublemaker
they try to avoid.
And I'll never be able to turn
myself into what they want.
[RIKA]
Satoko.
I would push myself to my limit
getting into the school,
and I'd have to keep
pushing myself further
to have some hope of graduating.
If I try this,
it's gonna break me.
Thank you for telling me.
If we're going
to do this together,
I need to know how
you really feel about it.
Rika.
I'll never abandon you.
If you're in trouble,
I'm always ready
to lend you a hand.
You're my best friend
in the whole world,
so if you're struggling,
call me, and I'll be there.
I promise.
So please believe in me.
Let's get into
St. Lucia Academy.
Together.
You'll really keep that
promise, no matter what?
Of course!
No matter what.
[SATOKO]
How could I refuse?
Then I'm going to hold you to it
and allow you this one chance
to live up to your word.
I swear I won't
let you down, Satoko!
[sighs] I'll need to
settle in for a few years
of studying starting tomorrow.
But as long as we work together,
I know we'll make it in the end!
Ni‐paa!
[laughter]
[RIKA]
Please, tell me more.
[GIRL C]
Oh, happily!
My goodness. I am fortunate.
You're all lovely.
[SATOKO] Rika. You talk me
into trusting you again,
and then you go
right back to this.
Are you mocking me?
Is it fun for you,
watching me go through this?
You'd never abandon me.
I can always call you
when I'm struggling, can't I?
Your best friend
in the world, huh?
Huh?
Everything okay, Rika?
Oh, yes.
Forgive my wandering attention.
[SATOKO] Surely this can only
be taken as an act of betrayal.
Right, Rika?
[STUDENT B]
Good tidings.
Good tidings to you.
[STUDENT B]
Good tidings to you, Lady Rika!
[RIKA]
Good tidings to you.
[STUDENT D]
Ms. Rika, good tidings to you!
Good tidings to you.
Morning, Rika.
Satoko.
I'm your best friend
in the world.
Why don't I get a
"good tidings"?
It's almost as if you
just tell everybody
what they want to hear,
like a dirty liar.
It's good to see you, Satoko.
Please, Rika.
You've troubled yourself
more than enough over this girl.
Excuse me, this conversation
is between me and Rika.
Not you uptight hussies
in lady's clothing.
Your vulgarity is not
impressing anyone here!
You should be ashamed.
You would never speak
to Rika this way
if you knew how much
she worries about you.
[SATOKO]
Does she?
And do any of those worries
relate to the promise she broke?
You have no right
to accuse me of that.
When your grades
first started to slip,
I offered to study with you
until you got them
back on track.
I saw you needed a hand,
and I reached out.
You slapped my hand away.
You told me that we would be
overcoming these
challenges side by side.
What you offered was friendship,
but when I needed you,
I only got pity.
I have never pitied
you for a second,
and I expect it
would behoove you
to stop pitying
yourself as well.
I don't believe
this conversation
is going to accomplish
anything for us.
[RIKA]
I'm inclined to agree.
[SATOKO]
That's terribly sad.
I was hoping it would go better.
I wanted you to get it
right this time.
[AUDIENCE gasps]
Get your hands
off her right now!
Rika.
This takes me back.
I really did miss it.
Yeah, me too.
[SATOKO]
Now then, let's begin.
Huh?
[SATOKO]
I learned my lesson.
I won't fall for any
of your lies next time.
[gasps] What? "Next time?"
So, good tidings to you.
My dear, traitorous, Rika.
[STUDENT B]
No!
[STUDENT D]
Ms. Rika!
[RIKA] Next time:
Satokowashi‐hen, Part Five.